doc/content/user/python.md, before:

# Python Package {#python-package}

\note
The NEML2 Python package is experimental. APIs are expected to change.

## Load and evaluate a model from input file

With the NEML2 Python package, the same input file in the other [tutorial](#cpp-backend) can be directly used in a Python script. The Python APIs closely ressembles the C++ APIs. For example, the previous C++ example translates to the following Python script.

```python
import neml2

model = neml2.load_model("input.i", "model")

model.reinit(3)

x = neml2.LabeledVector.empty(3, [model.input_axis()])

x.batch[0] = neml2.SR2.fill([0.1, 0.2, 0.3, -0.1, -0.1, 0.2])
x.batch[1] = neml2.SR2.fill([0.2, 0.2, 0.1, -0.1, -0.2, -0.5])
x.batch[2] = neml2.SR2.fill([0.3, -0.2, 0.05, -0.1, -0.3, 0.1])

y = model.value(x)
```

All is the same in the equivalent C++ example, the above Python script parses the input file named "input.i", loads the linear elasticity model named "model", constructs 3 strain tensors, and finally performs the 3 material updates simultaneously.

Commit message:

Make NEML2 use out-of-place evaluation wherever possible
- On-demand matrix assembly
- Fix unit tests, regression tests, and verification tests
- Add more model forward operator APIs
- Refactor LabeledAxis
- Update unit test and drivers to use the new model evaluation APIs
- Add new automatic differentiation APIs
- Regold (only) because of output format change
- Add bitmask operators
- Update python bindings
- Add new forward operator APIs that take map of tensors
- Replace LabeledTensor with Assemblers
- Improve python package visualization and add a unit test
- Update documentation to reflect all the changes
- Add NEML2_CPU_PROFILER to link libneml2 against libprofiler
- Factor out a common base class for solid mechanics drivers
- Add CystalMean object, remove taylor_average in the verification test
- Restrict the use of cp-warmup to strain-controlled large deformation incremental drivier
- Demangle include dependencies
- Switching to codechecker for linting
- Seprate out copyright check
- Ping pyzag version

doc/content/user/python.md, after:

# Python Package {#python-package}

\note
The NEML2 Python package is experimental. APIs are expected to change.

## Load and evaluate a model from input file

With the NEML2 Python package, the same input file in the other [tutorial](#cpp-backend) can be directly used in a Python script. The Python APIs closely ressembles the C++ APIs. For example, the previous C++ example translates to the following Python script.

```python
import neml2
from neml2.tensors import Scalar, SR2
from neml2.math import batch_stack

model = neml2.load_model("input.i", "model")

strain1 = SR2.fill(0.1, 0.2, 0.3, -0.1, -0.1, 0.2)
strain2 = SR2.fill(0.2, 0.2, 0.1, -0.1, -0.2, -0.5)
strain3 = SR2.fill(0.3, -0.2, 0.05, -0.1, -0.3, 0.1)
strain = batch_stack([strain1, strain2, strain3])

output = model.value({"forces/E": strain})
stress = output["state/S"]
```

All is the same in the equivalent C++ example, the above Python script parses the input file named "input.i", loads the linear elasticity model named "model", constructs 3 strain tensors, and finally performs the 3 material updates simultaneously.

## Model parameters

Model parameters can be modified in a similar fashion. One notable difference is that, in Python, model parameters can be directly accessed as class attributes, i.e.,
```python
E = model.E
E.set_(Scalar.full(200.0))
E.requires_grad_()
```
Similarly, multiple parameters can be updated at once:
```python
model.set_parameters({"E": Scalar.full(200.0),
                      "nu": Scalar.full(0.25)})
```
