doc/sphinx/index.rst, before:

NEML2 -- Nuclear Engineering Material model Library
====================================================

NEML2 is a modular library for creating constitutive models for 
structural materials.
While it was originally focused on materials slated for use in
high temperature nuclear reactors, it covers a wide range of
constitutive models used for all types of structural materials.

NEML2 can be tied into any finite element program that can use a C, C++, 
or Fortran interface.
This distribution provides an Abaqus UMAT driver as an example of how
to accomplish this.
Additionally, NEML2 comes with a Python interface that can be used to
develop, debug, and test material models.
The neml python module includes helper routines to simulate various 
common experimental conditions using NEML2 material models.

Go :doc:`here <started>` to get started with NEML2 by compiling it, running examples,
and learn how to link it to your finite element code or 
go :doc:`here <about>` to learn more about the structure of the library.

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1

   about
   started

Commit message:

Automatically generate stub documentation files

doc/sphinx/index.rst, after:

NEML2 -- Nuclear Engineering Material model Library
====================================================

NEML2 is a modular library for creating constitutive models for
structural materials.
While it was originally focused on materials slated for use in
high temperature nuclear reactors, it covers a wide range of
constitutive models used for all types of structural materials.

NEML2 can be tied into any finite element program that can use a C, C++,
or Fortran interface.
This distribution provides an Abaqus UMAT driver as an example of how
to accomplish this.
Additionally, NEML2 comes with a Python interface that can be used to
develop, debug, and test material models.
The neml python module includes helper routines to simulate various
common experimental conditions using NEML2 material models.

Go :doc:`here <started>` to get started with NEML2 by compiling it, running examples,
and learn how to link it to your finite element code or
go :doc:`here <about>` to learn more about the structure of the library.

.. toctree::
   :caption: Table of content
   :maxdepth: 1
   :glob:

   about
   convention
   started

.. toctree::
   :caption: Class documentation
   :maxdepth: 1
   :glob:

   source/*
